# Configuration file

Phobo can be configured with various settings that controls how it executes. These settings are stored in a JSON file which will be automatically generated by Phobo whenever it is run. This confiuration file usually has the following name:

`phobo.config.json`

If an existing file with the same name exists in the same directory as Phobo then it will be loaded when Phobo runs, otherwise it will be automatically generated.

You can also specify a configuration file stored in another location by specifying the CLI option flag **--config** or **--c** (See [CLI](cli.md#options)).
This will enable you to load the configuration file from another location.

## Configuration settings

The configuration file is a JSON file with the following structure:

```json
{
   "browser": {
      "edge": {
         "exeDir": "",
         "userDataDir": ""
      },
      "chrome": {
         "exeDir": "",
         "userDataDir": ""
      }
   },
   "supportTemplates": true,
   "pluginsDir": "plugins",
   "update": {
      "manifestUrl": ""
   }
}
```

- browser:
    
    Settings that controls the browser automation will be stored inside this object. Phobo supports automating *Google Chrome* and *Microsoft Edge* browsers. Phobo is using the *puppeteer* library to control the automation of any *Chromium* based browsers.

    **browser.edge.exeDir**:
    
    and

    **browser.chrome.exeDir**:

    To run browser automation you will need to have either Chrome or Edge installed. You can specify the location of your Chrome or Edge executable in the `browser.chrome.exeDir` or `browser.edge.exeDir`. If any of these variables are empty then Phobo will try and determine the location of the browser executable itself.

    **browser.edge.userDataDir**:
    
    and
    
    **browser.chrome.userDataDir**:

    These variables specify the user profile directory of which you want the browser to load and cache data. For example you want to be able to use an existing user profile when running the browser.

    For exampl you could specify the user data directory for Chrome to load and cache user data:

    `browser.chrome.userDataDir: "C:\Users\21305\AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data"`

    NOTE: If you want to use user data dir, you cannot have an existing instance of the browser running, otherwise Phobo will get an access denied exception when trying to load and use the user data directory. So make sure to exit any browser instance before running Phobo.

- supportTemplates:

    This variable can either be **true** or **false**. The default is **true**.

    If true then Phobo supports loading external template files specified in the gherkin feature file. This is a Phobo specific feature and not a feature of the Gherkin language.
    Templates is a feature that allows Phobo to replace Gherkin expressions with another expression specified in a template file. To understand how this works see [Templates](templates.md)

- pluginsDir:

    This variable specify the directory where plugins are stored. Phobo will load and run plugins from this directory. The default value is *plugins* and is relative to where Phobo is located.

- update.manifestUrl:

    This url of the manifest file used to retrieve latest version. This is used by Phobo to determine whether a newer version is available for download. When you the option **phobo.exe --update** it will check the manifest url for a newer version of Phobo and download it. You should normally not override this value but use whatever default value that is present, since a wrong manifest url will prevent Phobo from being able to update to newer version.